I believe a man with everything to my
team like Kevin Garnett that way I'm in
the real estate tonight I'm stressing to
you you take this outfit home are you
burning you take this right here I don't
care if it's Versace name-brand it cuz I
I know sorry I don't care you take this
and you burn I've understand hey what's
up how's it going best of times worst of
times so you know my first question has
to be what do I call you because I'm not
opposed to referring to you as goddess
during this conversation but it seems a
bit awkward seems a bit strange know huh
that new gen you know honestly I wish I
had professors and whatnot that I could
talk to about veganism in relation to
the university system but first of all
firstly most perfect professors don't
even fully understand veganism like I
took a philosophy of food course and I
was really excited to take this class
because I assumed my professors would be
knowledgeable about veganism in a class
about the philosophy of food I felt like
he just didn't understand the issue and
I was like yeah like we were vegans we
don't want to support things that you
know it directly or indirectly promote
animal cruelty or exploitation and it
was just like beyond him he didn't
understand it and I found that they were
just saying things were factually
incorrect about animal agriculture and
it was just I ended up dropping the
course it was such a disappointment
professor nothing about veganism and um
so that was it that was just my
disappointment that I didn't actually
find a professor to talk to you about
veganism in relation to the university
setting but um like have you had similar
experiences do you find that people who
I guess we called professors up to a
higher esteem right like we just I
suppose we expect them to know even know
what veganism is like depending on their
area of study yeah you will do fine III
don't let me know I really I really talk
to my professor and relate to them just
as some guy just as an ordinary guy and
that's I think that's a turning point in
everyone's life when you realize people
in positions of authority are no
different from any other
author you know our word in English for
authority first you become an author
then people start to regard you as an
authority you know why is this guy my
professor probably because he wrote some
book and you know that book got him this
job you know indirectly and you can go
to the library and take that book out
and you may decide it's complete
[ __ ] they may not be progressive at
all so you know for with for me with
professors of Buddhism very often that
was the case was you know um I've read
their book and I know I'm not impressed
so you know yes they have a PhD yes they
got this job which is you know very
large terms of PhD ppl people pitch
these are either unemployed or
underemployed permanently it's a very
sad path to take in life I'm sure many
people would encourage you to instead
get a you know diploma and education for
that reason because it could actually
lead to economic independence unlike
unlike getting a PhD and trying to
become a university professor but no I
don't meet them with those expectations
for me the experience is the opposite
they asked me about and you know it'll
come up in different ways uh you know
the background in humanitarian work and
politics and that stuff will tend to
come up in class first and the
professors may respect me or may fear me
or may be apprehensive about me for
those reasons and then the role veganism
plays in that starts to become obvious
because you know any of the humanitarian
where this this stuff you're alluding to
its are the course you dropped out of
the politics of agriculture and
agricultural reform the Anthropology of
food the cultural anthropology of food
of what people think is food and what is
not food you know it may sound stupid
but when you walk through a forest what
foods do you see as edible that's
completely cultural and not scientific
you know the Cree here in Canada there
were tons of edible and highly
nutritious foods in in their environment
in their mental niche that they never
exploited never harvested and the reason
for that was that the Cree had a
monomania with meat they were absolutely
obsessed with joke with having a meat
heavy meat intensive diet as a result
they would die at age 45 or 50 you know
they had short short but vibrant lives
the traditional diet was incredibly
unhealthy and it's still an issue to
some extent culturally in as much as
anyone is influential diet anymore but
you know likewise in Laos you can have
two different ethnic groups living in
the same ecological niche walking
through the same forest and what they
regard as food is totally different I'm
talking about plants basically but in
terms of animals it can be even more
extreme so I lived amongst the aqha I
have a two or three articles about the
akka but they're specifically about
humanitarian work and sex scandals and
corruption and politics in the acadecki
culture but the ACA's still to this day
there among the ethnic groups who eat
dog meat on a daily basis dog is to them
it's not us because there are other
cultures more common where dog is a
special food dogs and they once in a
while but for them dog is a daily source
of protein and when you walk up to an
Akha village they have wicker lattices a
wicker lattice stretching out dog skin
to make it into the leather you know so
you see the the height of a skin dog
it's one of the first things when you
walk up to a kvetch them right away you
know the ethnicity of that village the
ethnicity and language and right next
door to them will be another ethnic
group who are you know traditional tera
vaada Buddhists who not only never eat
dog but who regard it as you know a sin
as religiously offensive he does all
basically all tera vaada Buddhists would
refuse to eat dog unless they're
starving to death or something they're
also supposed to refuse to eat elephants
and a few other things it's not it's not
a very demanding religion but there are
there are a few meats that are that are
off-limits that way so yeah the question
of what is food how is food produced the
ethics of food and then the you know the
indescribable challenge that modernity
poses to all that because in all these
countries you know that the diet has
changed in Italy 200 years ago nobody
ate food out of an aluminum can and
nobody had an electrical refrigerator
you know if we pretend Italian culture
is something continuous and Italian food
is a continuous concept but the reality
is everything has been transformed
whether it's Italy or Ireland or Canada
or Thailand or Cambodia all these places
it's been transformed and then veganism
obviously fits into that posing I get a
yet more dynamic challenge so you know
obviously you've heard some my videos
videos talking about that stuff I mean
you know I do think so for me I just to
say on one hand I do think anthropology
assign disabled that agronomy as well as
agriculture mean agronomy is this kind
of in between science but frankly public
education you know your chosen field
your presume feel this much probably is
the single most dynamic battlefield for
the future of hearts and hearts and
stomachs you know what I mean is that
that's the real question is what what do
we teach people food was and is and it
ought to be so no totally I mean that
was I got the part of my reasoning for
wanting to go into that just because you
know like how it would just be such a
huge win if you could even include like
on hot dog day or something if you could
just include veggie dogs like that would
just be such a simple thing to do that
theoretically if I were in any kind of
position of authority that I could like
achieved and there's just so many things
that it could be done so easily right
now and be implemented but aren't and I
find that very frustrating well right I
mean obviously I'm a few years older
than you but I mean you know when I went
through the education system we had all
this kind of rather hollow education
aids was a huge fear at that time I know
aids still exists but it's no longer the
the the concern it was at that time so
year after year we got the lectures in
school about AIDS year after year we got
these kind of meaningless lectures about
ecology and recycling you know it's just
like okay you're eight years old I'm
gonna teach you the enormous
significance of a plastic bottle and I
am it is just kind of phony and a lot of
that it really it created a kind of
culture of neurosis you know meaningless
neurotic forms of ecology and ignoring
really important ones now you you
already know I'm vegan but um you know
even without that I had a girlfriend
Canadian
you know white Canadian girlfriend this
was just a not not a cambodian girl
friends maybe that would be a different
story but I had I had a Canadian
girlfriend and you know she I think just
as in effect of you know what we have on
TV like the CBC and what's in the
schools she had this kind of neurotic
belief that you know plastic shopping
bags from the grocery store that this
was a huge ecological problem and you
know I got the hard numbers for because
I already knew it wasn't and I you know
I sympathize up to a point but only up
to a point I had to sit down there and
say look you know as a percentage of the
waste stream this is less of a problem
than carpeting this is less of a problem
than drapes like I know you really
believe that plastic shopping bags are a
big deal I even know why you think that
because the education system kind of
shapes you that way you think this is
the difference you can make um but
you're wrong and and again I you know as
you know obviously veganism I don't have
to repeat it here maybe those those
other questions of meat-eating and
leading a meaningful life anyway you
know and how do we organize our cities
how do we live does I mean you know does
your life revolve around eating meat and
drinking alcohol I realized alcohol is
vegan um does your life revolve around
car ownership and driving a car and then
the way that you know when you scale
that up a whole city full of people who
eat meat and drive cars and you know
anyway these are these are the real
questions they say ultimately i think it
is education and sort of politics of
education that's that's got to be the
battlefield for that at least in a semi
democratic society like Canada you know
yeah I definitely think so I mean like
culture I think is going like I think
yeah culture must be the biggest
obstacle there to get him out the entire
world to go vegan i I just I hear people
on YouTube right like it drives me crazy
and rising absolutely crazy when they
promote things like YouTube is it's
going to liberate the animals because if
we just get everyone to watch these
videos so why not and like whiteley
someone in some foreign country they
don't even speak English Larry they're
going to watch this youtube video and
they're just going to forget about their
entire their people's entire history
me and their upbringing and whatnot and
now they're going to go vegan because of
social media because people in the West
are it's just totally ignoring like the
culture in these institutions and just
how deep rooted animal agriculture is
you know you've got to get on the
educational level you got to get to the
family you know that it's mind-boggling
so many your doors the end of your first
university degree i take it something
like this yeah i'm going into my final
year majoring in english literature
minoring in french hopefully i will wind
up being a schoolteacher with that but
i've already mentioned um yeah i'll be
content doing that for a few years i
think but i don't we'll see we'll see
how content i am with that i feel like
i'm gonna get ambitious i'm gonna want
to move up and have something with a
more authoritative power I suppose like
there's only so much you can do within
the system as an actual school teacher
so well then going back to school or not
you were dressed in the bowl you're just
the politics of education and education
policies that sort of thing is that is
that what you're referring to or yeah
yeah I like I would love to be um work
on the school board be a director of
education whether as a president or as
far as I can get really just because uh
you know I'm really passionate about
youth and education in general so it's
just the perfect fit at the at the early
stages of that in terms of the exotic
places I've lived like Laos and Thailand
and Cambodia and so on you know I'm I
did meet a lot of Canadians out there
who finished who were fully qualified
school teachers and who then lived in
Asia for a couple of years because the
school board didn't want them or didn't
want them yet you know they had no work
experience yet and there was so much
competition there were so many qualified
teachers you know looking for the same
positions so whether whether you like it
or not that that will be one option for
you and now you might like it you might
want to kill again don't don't waste
your life with it but you can kill a
year or two if you wanted to you know
teaching in parts of Asia just to just
to have that as intermediary but there
are good reasons also not to waste a
year of your life that way but if you
want the experience that that'll be open
for you if you're getting a full you
know what a teacher's certificate and so
on
yeah I mean I've certainly considered
going abroad I know I do have friends
who've already graduated Teachers
College and whatnot and they can't find
jobs so they've gone to England to go
teach and um you know it's just funny
how you say like I don't know if you
want to do that because you know when
you hear oh when a friend tells you I'm
gonna go live in England for a year and
you go work abroad like that sounds
really awesome you're gonna be a teacher
but then they get there and they say you
know the kids they're horrible their
breath all the food they all say this
and you know I was thinking about it and
I was like why would England want
teachers from Canada like why don't they
have their own teachers and apparently
it's just not a very like a steam job
it's not as respected like it is in
Canada as it is in England she says
there's just no respect for teachers
there and what not yep so yeah that's I
mean that's the thing about education it
brings you into cultural and political
questions everywhere you go you know if
if you became a teacher in Cambodia come
back to you once a but if you become a
teacher in Cambodia you'll be dealing
with the wealthiest the most
cosmopolitan the most dear assen ated of
children children who are Cambodian by
citizenship but who grew up in Paris you
know because their parents their the few
millionaires than Cambodia and yet we
had an incident with one of those kids
you know no offense but spoiled rich
kids pulling a gun at school and you
know this is not like youth violence in
Los Angeles or something the his method
of pulling a gun was going out to his
father's limo driver grabbing the limo
drivers gun and then pointing it I
forget he pointed a kid or at the school
teacher what have you yeah you know that
that's that's the millionaire
millionaire gang violence it's not you
know it's yeah he was mad at he was mad
at someone at school I forgettable the
kid was you know I forgave was 11 or 80
he was a kid he wasn't uh wasn't a
teenager and then the controversy the
reason I read about it was that his his
father was wealthy and powerful and his
father was trying to prevent the school
from from expulsion from expelling the
kid they always so you say everywhere
you go as a teacher where you fit into
the social hierarchy and your role
political is very different but when I
was in England
it was a fact nobody wants to deal with
that school teachers were paid less than
plumbers you know skilled tradesmen like
that doing plumbing or carpentry you
learned a lot more money and the the
traditional view of school teachers from
a hundred years ago or even 200 years
ago in England had really withered away
and it had become an underpaid miserable
job such as his infamous in many parts
the United States you know it's
stereotypical schoolteacher in Detroit
I'm sure some schools in Detroit are
wonderful but that actually in many ways
England had simply caught up with the
pattern already seen in the US yeah yeah
i think i read somewhere actually that
canadian teachers are the second highest
paid only behind sweden i believe yeah
it's that's right it's different from
problems to problems but yes ontario
school teachers are very very highly
paid and that's one reason why it's so
hard to get a job in ontario the one
period of my life when I looked at
applying to formal you know education
programs i forget they were Bachelors of
eddore what you know but education
certification was in connection to first
nations languages to create and you know
we have a whole separate school system
for first nations in canada because
that's not under the provincial
government then you have that that
struggle for to provide education on you
know residential i was going to say
residential schools but that's it that's
a batter but providing education at all
to First Nations so yeah and my mind
ersten that was obviously the native
language wasn't teaching English but
inevitably they all learn English now so
you know there's a tension there video
so you wanted to like what would have
been your teachable though in fact if
you know what I'm talking about and what
would you know you apply for legging
teachable is can we English or French
what would you well look if you're
serious about first nations languages
you'll do anything so you know you could
be the gym teacher matter much window in
terms of in terms of what it was
learning you know you're looking for a
way in to communities that are closed
for a good reason you know if your long
term goal is to really be involved with
creative ways as a language I was
looking at you know again see that's
something people think I'm an egomaniac
but there's a lot of really pragmatic
humility you need to do this kind of
thing so I was looking at a ten year
process of okay I'm gonna live in these
communities I'm going to learn this
language because not a language you
learn in one or two years you know and
make the kind of connections that let
you later do exactly the kind of work
you're mentioning really political work
on education policy and also charity
work you know work relating to libraries
and books can be crucial for those
communities to to get them the books I
was also interested in prison activism
and prison education which again for the
Korean age of ways a big deal because in
Saskatchewan there are ten percent of
the population but they're way more than
ten percent of the prison population so
getting education for First Nations
people in jails so that kind of thing
but leading up to that you know I never
had this delusion that you start as an
executive it's like well I've got ten
years between now and then so know it
whether I was a gym teacher or a math
teacher or anything else you know i'd be
there and my passion minders to be the
the language and the related you know
language language politics but you know
that too same thing in Laos you know I
didn't show up laos expecting to have
the role of a you know an expert who
dictate dictates to the people how they
should change their culture or change
their their politics would have you a
lot of people do especially if you have
the money as a donor I remember you know
I was I was actually given the official
legal title of government expert which
there is a scary title like when you
have that title people worry that you
have the power to get them killed
because you probably do in that country
um but remember they they literally gave
me that ID card that that says I'm a I'm
a government expert as a title on the
same day that I was informed that i was
being exiled from the country and could
never return and my life would be in
danger I might be put in a gulag or
beaten up or killed if I came back this
this tells you something about communist
bureaucracy the delay in issuing that
card to me recognizing mystified expert
perfectly coincided with him having the
the meeting that denounced me and issued
kind of formal death threats against me
wait formalized what had been before
then you know formal death threats so
yeah but yeah I was just gonna say you
understand why people think you're
our CIA agent right with him well no
different people different people see in
different ways when I was in Laos before
I got exiled from the country there were
people who thought I was a CIA agent who
then finally stopped thinking I was a
CIA agent when the government threatened
to kill me and that kind of stuff so
that was refreshing but I mean other
people like I knew a guy was an American
University professor he's probably still
here in conveying I haven't looked him
up but he so he had a PhD and he was
here doing low-level semi academic stuff
so he's an educated guy and just once in
conversation I used a turn of phrase I
use some technical term like deployed in
one of those technical terms like
rendition that not everyone knows but
for me it's my normal way of talking and
from that moment he became convinced I
was a CIA agent and would never hear
otherwise at that time at that time I
was literally living as a refugee
because I just been kicked out a louse
exactly what I mentioned you so I only
had my backpack and my bicycle and I was
you know sometimes sleeping on the floor
of a friend's apartment sometime staying
in a in a hostel and out like a youth
hostel or hotel I was really scraping by
not know my next dollars coming from
it's just like if this is how you think
the CIA operates you must think the CIA
really have a deep commitment to
Buddhist scholarship and charity work
you know this is this is your tax
dollars at work this is what the CIA
really supports it Southeast Asia you
know anyway I wish an undercover CIA
agent would say so I don't go in the
clearing everything too much seemed like
Kevin Garnett it's not any part I can
keep no nothing so when you get done
with this you should be butt ass naked
this should be this should be burned
okay it's good to see like always in the
shoes to just burn them okay they just
burn it don't ask no questions burn the
whole the Red Sox was the people can't
see you at home take all this
handkerchief lime thumb all that burn it
okay that might a business really stick